Shane's Personal Story Sample:

I didn't have much growing up. More than that, I really never knew what was possible, outside of becoming a professional athlete. I was obsessed with sports and learned to read by reading the sports page.

My dad was an executive at a trucking and steel warehousing plant in the industrial part of Detroit. I used to tag along with him on Saturday while he worked and I would just run around the huge warehouse and make up games. It was dark, stinky, and boring. I didn't want a job like my dad.

My mom was a secretary (when they still called them that). She was the fastest typer that I ever saw and very organized. But I didn't want to do what my mom did. I learned to type in first grade as part of Pembroke's gifted and talented program. But that was boring too.

I grew up in a middle class part of an upper class section of Detroit. All of my friends' parents were tied to the auto industry somehow. Sales reps, managers, etc. I didn't know any CEO's or high powered executives where I grew up. I didn't even know what that meant.

My mom knew that she needed me to see what was capable. She couldn't give me the gift of a debt free college experience or a down payment on a first house. We always had enough (barely), but my childhood wasn't about potential, it was about survival. Food stamps, hand me down clothes, and lots of Hamburger Helper (Gross!!!!!).

My mom and dad knew that education was the only way for me to have it better than they had it. They read to me and made sure that we always had books, even those beat up Encylopedias.

All they could give me was a chance to compete in the big leagues by sending me to Detroit Country Day School. Where the elite of the elite learned. I received numerous scholarships to attend 7th grade. My family was on the hook for a $5,000 payment which they miraculously scraped together (barely). My mom and dad didn't know how they did it, but they did.

When I got to DCD, for the first time in my life, I saw what potential was. A potential that had nothing to do with the MLB and NBA. A potential that was about intelligence and not manual labor. It was everything.

I was never a cocky kid, I was tall and awkward despite being an excellent athlete. But I was never intimidated in the classroom. I felt I belonged and my competitive spirit wasn't going to let me fail. But I needed to see what potential looked like. I believe in providing kids like me, who had the talent and drive just a little inspiration and perspective, that the world they never knew was attainable regardless of where you come from.

It made all of the difference.